Right, yeah, this was, I believe it was in 79 when
Charlie Holland and I got together with Bob
Walker, who was director of development here at
A&M, still active, and we formed the Lindsay
Lectures Committee, and we raised about $30,000
from the former students in order that we could
bring in top lectures in chemical engineering,
and our real purpose was trying to get the
department to be better known, because at that
time the department had become reasonably
strong, but it was still pretty much unknown
throughout the North and East. And so we
deliberately targeted all the chemical
engineers that were members of the National
Academy of Engineering, for example, to bring
them in here. for a lecture so they would at least
know where we were and who we were.
But that was really the first committee of our
outstanding former students, and it's the
forerunner of the committee we have now that's
actually called a, it's called an industrial
advisory committee. The Lindsay Lecturers
Committee was the forerunner of that, and it was
sort of the first group of students, too, that went
out to try to help us raise money. And then later, we
used this group to raise more major money. We
raised about, in total, about $250,000.
later, but this was into the early 80s. And that's
what set up the C.D. Holland Professorship that's
held at Ray Anthony now. And also as part of that,
there's the Brunner Barnes Graduate
Assistantship,
and there's another, I can just call it Chemical
Engineering Alumni Graduate Fellowship. And
that was back in the days when at Texas A&M, if you
raised money from outside sources, the board of
directors would match it. So those monies were all
matched back for university money.
That's good. The department really has done a good
job in what I can tell. Building an industry
connection, using the industry connection, And
it's complimenting
everybody. It's complimenting everyone.
OK, that's really good to know. If you were going to
suggest a striking difference or a character of
Holland's style as opposed to Newton's, would you
agree with that or not? Well, no, I worked very well
with both of them. Of
course, when I first came, Doc Winsley was in the
latter part of his tenure as department head, and
of course I was just a young professor. But I did
almost immediately take on a lot of the odd jobs in
the department. And that was Charlie Holland's
relief, because Charlie was way behind writing
research papers and doing a lot of other things. So
when Charlie became head, the style is totally
different.
And I have one document in here that I I wrote up for
Charlie Holland's retirement that says some
things about Charlie.
Charlie's way of writing the department was a
little different in that Charlie really liked to
write textbooks.
Being head of the department, I don't think, was
Charlie's great ambition. And he was quite good at
it. But Charlie would get up at 3 o'clock every
morning and write on textbooks until about 7 and
would come in here. He liked to have 7 o'clock
classes, which the students didn't appreciate.
But Charlie was definitely a very early morning
guy. And then by the afternoon, Charlie would have
to go to all those damn department head meetings,
and you name it. And by that time, it was evening for
Charlie, and he could halfway sleep through them,
which was just exactly part of his plan. Then he
would go home, and he would be in bed bait upon. So
anyway, that's the way Charlie ran things.
And I became... I think after a few years, I became,
well, Charlie's right-hand man, or maybe his
hatchet man. But anyway, and so I started doing a
lot of things that department heads often do. I
became in charge of hiring all the faculty, which I
did for a long time.
I think I hired, the last time I counted, I still had
hired 13 of the present 25, but almost all the,
quote, older guys here, I think I hired.
And that was another period where we started to
hire, we hired a lot of people. And in about, it
could be off by a year, but in about 1975,
76, probably. In 75, I hired Dick Hall or Ken Hall
here. But then Charlie said, you've got to hire
five people in one year, and I about went berserk. I
didn't think that could be done. But I did hire
three people. I hired Ralph Light, Jim Holsey, and
Charlie Glover. And those three all worked out
extremely well. Ralph White's now department
head at South Carolina, so he did leave A&M about
three years ago, but they've all worked out. And
then later I hired some people I shouldn't have,
because I was trying to hire too many people. We
were expanding very fast there in the late 70s. Our
student population had gone completely out of
hand. As a matter of fact, when I came back from
sabbatical, I had a sabbatical at Imperial
College in London from 1971 to 1972. When I came
back from London, our student population was
already getting out of hand, so one of the things I
did in 1973, 1974, and 1975 and there, I brought in
professors from England just to come here and
teach for a year, because the salary structure in
England was so terrible that We could pay them far
more money. It still wasn't that much money. And
they'd come in and teach three courses. And we were
just trying to keep our heads above water, because
we were faced with a tremendous number of
students. And I think at one time, we actually got
up to 1,400 undergraduates.
And we were still a faculty that was around 12
people. And it was just getting out of hand.
So Charlie actually gave me almost parts of his
job. Of course, this was all done under mutual
agreement, but as Charlie and I laughed about this
often, I told him, well, if you If you ever disagree
with me on a major policy, I'll quit." So, I mean,
you understand, you know, I do have to have your
support, and, you know, if I'm going to do these
jobs. Well, he said, I like to designate, to
delegate my authority, you know. Well, Charlie
was, he was really very good about that. And, of
course, Charlie was very, you know, good at
keeping the faculty happy and, you know, being,
talking to them. But Charlie really didn't like a
lot of the day-to-day operation and
administration of the department. He didn't
enjoy that. He liked to talk to people. He's a very
extroverted person.
We did a lot of things by committee. And I also
started, I'm sure of the exact date, but started
the tenure and promotion committee in that.
That was,
I think, it may have been in the early 80's.
Right. No, that's further back. Sorry about that.
Yeah, we started in 1974.
I started as first chairman and all that. I'm
chairman of it again, just this year.
Congratulations. Again. Congratulations. Been
away from it for a while. 25
years later.
And we did hire, at that time, a number of quite good
people, too. We later hired Ted Watson, hired
Drago Bucher here,
and Iden Aukerman, also, who's now the social
department head. He's also had a very good career.
But yeah, we've hired quite a number of good
people.
Several of them have left to become department
heads at other schools.
Who is playing? Yes, that is almost a story within
itself. And let me provide it, because I'm
probably one of the few people. In fact, I'm
probably the only person here that can provide the
story. I'm trying to make it reasonably brief. But
Dan Pham took a PhD at MIT. And he was also one of the
early people that I hired. And Dan is
technically a genius. I mean, really a bright guy.
But anyway, Dan is, to say the least, a little
abrasive. And he's a classic New York City boy,
perhaps, but not to offend anybody. And I've
always, myself, I sort of like that.
But Dan did not get along with anybody else here too
well. And we used to go over, Fred Benson would have
us all come over once a year for sort of a review and
just to chat with the dean. And I got along very well
with Fred, who's another one of my really favorite
people. And so Charlie Holland always would send
me over right after Flam to try to repair the
damage. And I remember the first time this
happened, I walked into Fred Benson's office and
he said, He said, Eubank, I've really just gotten
an earful. That young man just told me that I had
been running the college completely wrong here,
and he gave me a lot of ideas how to get myself
straight down and run this college a whole lot
better.
So anyway,
we finally got Flamm to resign, because it got to
the point where He was having major problems with,
first of all, with all the students. The students
didn't like him, and with the faculty. He
basically just wasn't getting along with
anybody, and it was partly because he liked to
argue. And he considered that a way of life, and his
wife was a professor over in the psychology
department.
And so anyway, and they argued all the time too, and
it was just sort of their way of having fun. But it
was not always appreciated here, and so Dan
resigned finally, and I told him, and I didn't know
that this was going to be processed, but I said, you
ought to go work for somebody like Bell Labs and let
them put you off in a corner where you can do
research and don't have to interact with other
people. Well, he went to work for Bell Labs. And
now, Flam is a very famous person. Oh, is that
right? Yeah. He later was really the first guy to
invent... This is in making chips for computers,
like electronic chips, semiconductors. And
Dan... is really the father of what is called
anisotropic
etching, which is where you go in with
anisotropic. It's A-N and then isotropic.
Let me tell you what it means. It's where you go in
and you want to etch out a square corner. If you just
put in a chemical like hydrochloric acid, it'll
etch, but it'll etch like in a sphere. It'll etch
equally in sort of all directions. That's just
natural. He developed the use of radio frequency
plasma to shoot a plasma beam onto the device or
onto the silicon or dope silicon and then it would
make a square corner. So all the stuff you see on
your computer chips are, you know, those things
have all got these square corners. And so that
etching was all developed at Bell Labs. And if you
look at the original research papers, the first
name was Phlam. And I was, because I'm involved in
plasmas, I was at a meeting just a year and a half
ago, International Plasma Chemistry meeting,
And I talked to some of the people who were also on
those papers who had worked with him, and they
said, well, you know, it was difficult to work with
him, but they had, and that had great success. And
Dan is now a consultant, actually, to the chemical
engineering department at Berkeley, at UC
Berkeley. But I've also talked to some people out
there, and they said, well, you know, he You have to
keep him at arm's length, and we don't dare put him
in the classroom, because he really is still
pretty much, he has not mellowed. I thought he
might mellow with years, like some of us, but
apparently he hasn't mellowed too much.
But anyway, he did something really wonderful.
Some people don't care. They do. They do not. If he
tried to stay here, it never would have worked. It
would have never worked, though. Well, I better
let you go. But one thing I might come back and ask
you about later, Bill, is that you couldn't tell me
there is a plan. Right. I'm probably going to go off
over the more lasting, and I'm going to talk to Ray.
This is something I didn't start. I mean, for sure.
I started the... roll chapter of Omega Chi
Epsilon, which was the National Chemical
Engineering Honor Society in 1970 here at A&M.
Again, I won't exactly say that I started it. At
that time, I was the chief faculty advisor to Tau
Beta Pi, which was the engineering honor society.
But it takes into account everybody here in
engineering. And some of the chemical
engineering students in Tau Beta Pi came to me and
said they wanted to form a separate honor just for
chemical engineers. Because I could never get
elected to office here in the Tall Bay to Pine,
because they were always outvoted because they
were more mechanical civil engineers. And so we
formed the Roe chapter. And it later became the
largest chapter in the country. And I was advisor
until about six years ago. And then Ray Anthony
took it for about four years. And when did that
start? It started in 1970. And
now Omega Chi Epsilon, the national honorary, has
grown. We were about 18. We now have about 60
chapters in Omega Chi. And as of the last year, I'm
the national president of Omega Chi. And we are
still growing at the rate of about five chapters a
year. And we now have 20,000 total members, and
we're initiating about 1,000. I just signed 1,000
certificates over the Christmas holidays. So
we're initiating about 1,000 people every year at
about 20 campuses across the country. Is yours a
one-year tenure for 96, 97? No, actually, it's a
four-year tenure. stuck with it, I think, for
about three more years, but it's a rather nice job
being president because we have a
secretary-treasurer who's at Kansas State who
does all the work. I mean, as of the National
Society, I mostly go to meetings and figure heads,
so it's quite pleasant. But I wanted to bring that
up because That's something that did start here.
And
I'm still trying to reactivate the Alpha chapter,
because this was founded at the University of
Illinois in the 1920s. And later, Illinois became
inactive for the chapter.
So I'm trying to get them back. But it's a real fine
honorary.
All right.